The President: Hi, everybody.
One of the things that makes
America so strong is our
spirit of innovation.
Our drive to invent and
harness new technologies to
tackle our greatest
challenges.
It's how we won the race to
invent the lightbulb and the
Internet; it's why we were
first to the Moon and Mars.
It's why I keep models of
American inventions like the
telegraph in
the Oval Office.
It's a daily reminder of the
genius that's embedded in
our DNA; the way we've
always shaped the future
through our ideas
and discoveries.
That's truer
than ever today,
with the constant stream of
new apps and tools and data
that are still changing the
way we live - from getting a
ride to paying our bills to
developing smarter ways to
combat climate change.
That's why, next week, I'll
travel to Austin, Texas,
to visit South by Southwest.
It's an annual gathering of
some of our most creative
thinkers, coders, makers,
and entrepreneurs from
across the country.
And while I'm there, I'm
going to ask everyone for
ideas and technologies
that can help update our
government and our democracy
to be as modern and dynamic
as America itself.
This has been a goal of
mine since
before I was President.
On my campaign in 2008, we
saw how technology could
bring people together and
help them engage as citizens
in their own communities.
So when I came to
the White House,
I wanted apply that
experience
to the federal government.
It hasn't always been easy.
And we've had some
bumps along the way.
But we've also
made good progress.
Over the past few
years, for example,
we've done something that
government never has.
We asked some of the
sharpest minds from
companies in Silicon Valley
and across the country to
come help us modernize the
federal government for the
way we live today.
And they came
ready to serve,
tackling some of our biggest
challenges - like high-tech
special ops units.
These teams are partnering
with the government's
existing policy and
technical experts to
re-imagine the way we
do business and deliver
services that work
better and cost less.
Already, we've made it
easier for students to find
the college that's
right for them.
For immigrants to track
the green card and
naturalization
process online.
For veterans to access
their medical records.
And yes, after an
initial false start,
we've made it much easier
for tens of millions of
Americans to compare and buy
health insurance and the
peace of mind
that goes with it.
That's what this is all
about - making sure our
government of the people and
by the people works better
for the people in
the 21st century.
It's about Americans working
together to make a real
difference in
people's lives.
Because the easiest thing to
do is to blame government
for our problems.
Some people have made
a career out of that.
But our founders trusted us
with the keys to this system
of self-government because
it's the best tool we've got
to settle our differences
and solve
our collective challenges.
And it's only as
good as we make it.
That's why I'm going
to Austin and South by
Southwest - to keep asking
everyone from all walks of
life, working inside or
outside of government,
to help us make this
democracy even stronger.
And I hope you join us.
Thanks everybody,
have a great weekend.